welcome to the 14 most hilariously
awkward Tech fails of all time these are
honestly so hard to watch that you're
one to bury your head in the ground to
save yourself from the cringe so the air
umbrella was a pretty exciting prospect
when it first surfaced in 2014 it's less
bulky than a normal peasant umbrella it
doesn't use fabric that needs to dry off
it doesn't have a frame that's going to
get caught on things and invert itself
anytime there's anything more than just
a little light Breeze and H you'd look
like the coolest kid on the blog
repelling rain with your wind force
field so am I surprised that this ended
up raising over $100,000 when it landed
on Kickstarter not really but am I
actually shocked that this even ended up
on Kickstarter yes because well here's
the problem if you actually want to
repel rain with air you've got to eject
that air faster than the rain is falling
at you so 25 mph as discovered by the
action lab Channel or in other words
this would basically need to be as
powerful as a professional leaf blower
you know those ones that are so loud you
can hear them from two streets away yeah
that just right next to your head not to
even mention the size of the battery and
therefore the weight required to keep
this thing running for anything more
than 10 minutes and then even if you
solve those problems if you're literally
blowing the air away from you what
happens to the person standing next to
you so yeah the product was dead before
it was even made and because the trailer
was almost definitely faked too by
cutting off the image so you couldn't
actually see the industrial size pump
that I can only assume was attached to
actually allow it to work the creators
were forced to cancel the project but
since they'd already spent all the
backer's money on it they had nothing
left to refund them with two out of 10
two out of 10 just because things do get
much much
worse
somehow like laundroid a robot straight
from the future thought would be able to
wash to dry this thing could use AI
powered visual processing to identify
clothes iron those clothes sort them and
then even fold them to be stored in a
dedicated closet and this thing was even
demoed live at the CES Tech show where
it did manage to fold a t-shirt in front
of thousands of attendees leading to
this campaign being on a whole other
scale to the air umbrella I mean this
company raised $89 million in funding
and then borrowed 20 more for some
reason well this is awkward because it's
only upon receiving all of these funds
that laundroid realized a slight flaw in
their plan they were trying to create
something requiring the technology of
2050 but actually using the technology
of 2015 sure they were able to get it
working on under their own very
specifically controlled demos but as
soon as you took it outside of that yeah
I mean like one Verge reporter found
that laundroid couldn't even handle
folding his T-shirt in 2018 because the
black color confused the image
processing I mean what would it do if I
handled it this but also the vast
engineering required to get robotic arms
to be able to do what's actually quite a
simple task for humans means that this
robot was priced at
$16,500 who could afford that well only
people who could also just hire a maid
who could do the job far better and far
faster because yes laundroid took
between 5 and 10 minutes to fold the
most simple t-shirt Peak example of over
engineering to ion out a non-issue by
vaguely saying the word AI a few times
in the earshot of some investors the
company went bankrupt about 4 years
after they first debuted presumably
because they realized how impossible it
was to achieve what they were promising
because even despite spending over $100
million they did not manage to ship a
single unit before they well folded
three out of 10 but I got to say one of
the best places to experience that raw
unrefined Silicon Valley awkwardness is
Live Events Tech demos and presentations
where things don't go to plan and just
watching the chaos that ensues like
Apple's iPhone 4 launch event I cannot
tell you how much hype there was for
this phone it was the first ever major
redesign of the iPhone it was the
introduction of the retina display but
um in the process of showing the
audience how much faster and better the
iPhone 4 was compared to the previous
iPhone 3GS Steve Jobs stumbled into some
connectivity issues okay let's just
watch the clip it's insanely
uncomfortable you want to watch as well
so now let me go
ahead I'm going to go to some websites
I'm going to go to the New York Times
today and uh let's just compare these
websites
so the iPhone 3GS is on the left and
it's loading it faster oh no our
networks in here are always
unpredictable so they're a little have
no idea what we're going to
find they are slow today you has to keep
filling the S you know you could help me
out if you're on Wi-Fi if you could just
get
off I appreciate
it uh we're having a little problem here
I don't know what's wrong with our
networks I can show you some pictures in
the camera roll let's just go take a
look at some photos here I mean he
definitely handled it well considering
what was at stake but it's just the
whole well a blaming the audience for
the iPhone going wrong and then B the
well I can show you some pictures and
the Ripple effects of a mess up like
this they are enormous because all of a
sudden there is a caveat to every single
piece of coverage that people will make
on the iPhone 4 Apple also had an
equally big blunder recently with their
tra for the 2024 iPad Pro they'
basically gone and hired a huge
industrial press to slowly crush a
myriad of artists tools and I was
actually in the crowd watching people
live cringing as this press slowly eat
the life out of every single object on
this platform until finally revealing
that all of those things were now
compressed into the new iPad Pro and you
can see the metaphor that they were
trying to go for they really want to
portray the wide array of tools that
they have for artists like procreate and
garage band and how crazy it is that all
of them fit into this new ridiculously
thin device but the interpretation that
a large part of the internet actually
took instead was that this is just yet
another big tech company very literally
crushing the humanity of the individual
artist it's them looking at a bunch of
sophisticated artist tools the kinds of
finely crafted implements and
instruments that take a lifetime to
master and saying oh yeah that's easy
that's simple our shiny new tablet can
do all of that I think Hugh Grant puts
this really succinctly in a tweet I'm
just surprised that not one person with
decision-making power Apple saw this ad
and thought hey guys aren't people going
to take this the wrong way considering
the world that we're living in right now
anyway they know now cuz the internet's
response was vocal enough that Apple
actually had to come out and apologize
which is a rare occurrence and then
almost like clockwork Samsung came out
the woodwork to tell everyone how they
would never Microsoft's tablet fumble
though was even worse they were demoing
the brand new Surface RT tablet back in
2012 and you could tell they really
really wanted this to be the iPad
competitor but then it has access to all
of the Windows apps for music for video
for Xbox and gaming we can see here I'm
running Internet Explorer I can browse
smoothly you see great Pages using using
clear type and have a great experience
just with all the with with browsing
it's 10.6 in optically bonded widescreen
display custom designed and of course
people play games I go play any of the
interesting games that are on in the
Windows store and I can use surface for
using all the sensors that are within
Windows as well movies and entertainment
look great as well
oops hang on
what there excuse me just a
second surface works great for
entertainment as well that is awful it's
just the timing the like the little word
fumbles when you can tell he's trying to
stick to the script but also has no idea
what's going on cuz he's looking at the
tablet knowing that it doesn't work but
not showing the
audience poor guy it's a very bad look
and in the case of the Surface RT it's
unfortunately quite representative of
the product itself Windows was first
designed for home PCS and this was the
very early days of them trying to chop
and fit that user interface into running
off a touchscreen and a mobile chip the
problem was that because this was such a
mammoth task early iterations like the
Surface RT was so laggy and most apps
didn't work the product was bad enough
for Microsoft to lose $900
million so I guess you could at least
give the guy credit for an accurate demo
thank you thank you very much easy 4 out
of 10 but if we're going for Pure
uncaged secondhand embarrassment you
can't beat Volvo in their demo for their
new XC60 car in 2010 and its new
automatic braking features well feel
like a know what's about to
[Music]
happen oh
no I mean technically it ladies and gent
we've had some kind of mishap in the
testing here we've had some kind of
mishap in the testing air you don't say
that was the worst one yet the irony
that the car's even got a badge saying
Volvo Safety Center I mean what better
demo could you have had to not buy
anything that company makes this must be
one of the most catastrophically awkward
moments ever at a product launch event
but while launch events gone wrong can
clearly be pretty amusing the real
backfiring only really occurs once the
company has officially said it's ready
and the product gets out there in the
wild like the Apple fine woven cases
which were created to replace their old
leather option Since cattle farming does
create a massive amount of greenhouse
gas emissions every year but fine woven
which uses a new durable microwill
fabric designed to feel sued like while
also being largely made from recycled
material was supposed to be Apple's way
of having their environmentally friendly
cake and eating it too moving on from
leather without leaving that level of
quality behind but my goodness I mean
first problem you know this fine woven
fabric it might feel pretty thick giving
the illusion of the kind of all One
Piece cases that we used to from Apple
but it's actually just a really thin
layer of this material on top of just
memory foam okay but then you use this
thing a little more and you realize hey
it also collects like every single
pocket particle that comes near it catur
lint dust it's impossible to keep it
clean and then the real nail in the
coffin is that you then realize it's
extremely prone to scratching and also
the sides they can just tear and peel if
you so much as rub it too hard up
against any commonly used case material
even really cheap case materials fine
woven fair is by far the worst and you
could say well it's helping the
environment so what if it has to be a
bit worse well they're still charging
you the full $60 that you would have
paid for leather you just are now quite
likely to have to replace it for a new
one after a year and therefore increase
your wastage leakers are now claiming
that fine woven was such a poor product
that Apple has actually seized
production of it going forward now
whether or not that's actually true it
seems like a pretty smart move to me but
you know what wouldn't be a fail is
helping us to beat Apple in our
year-long subscriber Race So a sub to
the channel would be
triumphant now if you ever looked for
jobs in the professional space there's a
pretty good chance that you've heard of
a company called glass door glass door
is a really Val valuable idea it allows
the workers at any company to
anonymously share their experience
working for their employer which both
incentivizes companies to act ethically
while also arming future potential
employees with information to make
better decisions for themselves the key
key word in all of this being
anonymously because if anyone is leaving
bad feedback for a company that they're
still currently working at it could be a
career ruining move if that feedback
isn't Anonymous right well turns out the
glassor has decided to change change
their policy now any user who signs up
needs to give their full name their job
title and their employer upon sign up
for the purposes of verification which
okay kind of defeats the purpose of the
whole site since even though your
details aren't being attached to your
public reviews you can't ever be truly
Anonymous if the site actually does hold
identifying information about you so
weird move but fine until you realize
that the website has also been secretly
grabbing a lot of older users data too
in really creepy ways when one user
earlier in 2024 again anonymously going
by the Sudan in Monica emailed glassor
support team to ask them to remove some
stuff that she'd written before what
they did instead was to actually take
the real name that was in her email and
attach it to her public account oh not
to mention her City too just in case you
know anyone had any doubts about who she
was which they must have gotten from her
job search locations I guess and the
only way to get that data scrubbed
delete your account and every single
review you've ever left so Monica ended
up writing an angry blog post about this
it blew up it became a massive Fiasco
and we then realized that this had
actually been happening to many other
people too it all kept snowballing into
headlines like if you've left a bad
review on glass store you may want to
delete your account obviously dealing a
pretty shattering blow to both the
company's user base and their security
reputation they probably should have
double glazed it okay the nothing
company you know the ones who make these
funky transparent looking phones well as
a way to try and stand out in 2023 they
decided to try and once and for all fix
the iPhone Android messaging divide
created by iMessage or to put it another
way to allow you to get blue bubbles on
Android they employed the help of
another company called Sunbird who
created a system through which users
could log into to their Apple ID on
their nothing Android phone and from
then on their messages could be rooted
through an Apple Mac server Farm to come
across as official Apple iMessages
nothing advertised the feature to
include single messaging group chats
live typing indic Full Resolution Media
sharing voice notes almost the full
iMessage shebang at launch and
importantly that the messages would be
end to-end encrypted so they wouldn't be
stored on any
servers however literally the day before
the November 17th beta launch for this
feature Apple announced that they'd
finally allow iPhones to support the RCs
messaging standard you know the one that
Google had been proding them to do for a
very long time because it creates parity
Androids have RCS so as soon as iPhones
have C S2 then it means that Android
users while still of course having green
bubbles will be able to freely text
iPhone users and also have all the perks
of modern messaging apps which means
that overnight nothing's sole unique
offering was now just beautiful new blue
bubbles but that's not even why nothing
made it on this list because when their
app launched on the Play Store people
quickly found out that it wasn't end to
end encrypted like they promised the app
was actually sending all data
unencrypted and it could easily be
accessed in plain teex the reasons are
fairly complicated but one easily
relatable and frankly cartoonish example
that shows the scale of the problem is
that the app was using the HTTP protocol
not
https any guesses what the S stands
for secure nothing weren't actually the
developers of the app that would have
been way worse they're just the ones who
published it but that's still a massive
problem for a phone company who needs
users to place their trust in them
especially a new company with a lot to
prove like
nothing right it's top five time this is
where you just kind of need to grit your
teeth and bear the pain now pretty much
every Tech fail I've ever covered has
some sort of twist like good idea but
poor management or greedy CEOs or Shady
business practices however in the case
of the Humane AI
pin yeah it was just a bad idea it was
all going really well for the first 8
months or so with the company slowly
teasing out details of this device that
was the future of Computing Advanced AI
capabilities all controlled by touch and
voice they got a lot more coverage than
you'd expect and a lot more Intrigue
than most companies in their position
skyrocketing their value to almost a
billion dollars it of course helps that
both co-founders are ex Apple Executives
everyone loves the story of an ex-apple
employee doing what Apple wouldn't but
let me tell you whilst the resulting AI
pin did have the Polish and that
unmistakably Apple minimalist design
unlike Apple products it feels like in
all the hype and the push to devel V
something different the company forgot
to ask the question why the AI pin did
absolutely nothing that your smartphone
couldn't already do while still costing
as much as a high-end smartphone would
with an additional subscription cost
that would likely make it even more
expensive than your phone which can
already do way more I mean technically
you can wear it so it's always around
but I mean the thing takes so long to
respond to your requests it's probably
still quicker to actually go to your
pocket take out your phone and ask that
instead essentially isolated it lots of
media slated it and then Marquez MKBHD
stepped in to reaffirm that it is in
fact the worst tech product he has ever
reviewed feels like a 6 out of 10 I
think the company will continue to exist
but once you've had a hype cycle and
this much media attention and then blown
it as badly as Humane has it's really
hard to get that chance again I think
the company will now either be relegated
to the specific niche of people who want
phones but don't like screens or it's
going to have to be bought out by a
bigger tech company who can turn the
salvageable bits into a better product
okay so you remember that glass door
section that was all about very poorly
handled consumer data well at least that
is still currently a what if situation
Ashley Madison experienced the worst
possible case scenario and by the way I
still to this day cannot believe this is
a thing but Ashley Madison is the first
ever married dating site so you
basically only sign up if you're in a
committed relationship and looking for
some Secret side action boy the tagline
is literally life is short have an
affair so anyway obviously due to the
very sensitive nature of the site it
claimed to have excellent security until
2015 when hackers calling themselves the
impact team announced that they had
acquired every last bit of Ashley
Madison's user and employee data and
demanded that Avid life media the
Canadian company behind the site
permanently take down both Ashley
Madison and its related site establish
men or else they would publicly dump all
of this data I mean it's it's hard to
have too much sympathy but imagine being
one of the 37 million users of this site
knowing that at any second your biggest
secret could be blown in your life well
even more messed up than it already is
impact team held a grudge on the site
because of how it both trivializes and
enables adultery but the other reason
they decided to attack the company was
one particular feature that Ashley
Madison offered you could delete your
account but only if you paid them a $20
fee which is slimy enough already but
then impact also found out that the
company was only deleting that data from
the public side of the site they were
actually still keeping it internally
even while extorting their users to
remove it so what happened well Avid
life media refused to take the sites
down and impact
team they were not bluffing they
proceeded to flood the internet with
post after post 32.8 GB of customer
information salary data spreadsheets
containing email and password
combinations revenue reports source code
customer chat logs all topped off with a
new revelation keep in mind that the
site is a scam with thousands of fake
female profiles 90 to 95% of actual
users are male chances are your man
signed up on the world's biggest Affair
site but never actually had one he just
tried to if that distinction matters oh
goodness well I'm sure that 2015 was an
amazing year for divorce lawyers but I
me another group who massively benefited
from this Scandal is other hackers
because people whose data was leaked in
this breach have been receiving
personalized blackmail emails ever since
and even though you're probably not
visiting Ashley Madison I'm going to
show you a new WhatsApp contact that you
can add right now who can just generally
stop you falling into traps on the
internet and no it's not my mom it's
actually bit defender's new AI powered
assistant sco this vid's sponsor the
concept is this there's like a million
cyber criminals out there right but now
they're all using AI to mask their scams
to the point where Common Sense alone
sometimes isn't enough so this is like a
completely free companion you add it as
a contact or just to your web browser
and anytime that you're not sure about
something that you see on the internet
anytime you're not sure about a link or
you know there's emails that could
either be something that you need to
very urgently action or a way for
someone to steal your details all of
that stuff you literally just ping it
over to sco the same way that you would
text your mom except this unlike your
mom uses very Advanced AI to tell you
what to do and I've actually tried to
trick it quite a lot at this point and I
have not been successful I've actually
been wanting to work with Bit Defender
for a while now because they're they're
quite good like this is the brand that's
trusted by law enforcement globally and
they're very highly ranked by
independent Labs so scam is a good one
for you who's already quite techy but I
would say also particularly people you
know who are more likely to fall for
scams so Link in the description it is
completely free now if you thought the
crowdfunding air umbrella and the law
Droid were bad then xano drones was an
absolute shambles this company were
promising something pretty incredible a
palm-sized drone that did away with
fiddly onscreen controls and instead
owed you to control it using really
intuitive gestures so moving your phone
around to move the Drone around and it
was apparently so stuffed with highgrade
sensors that it could do it all it could
follow you it could avoid obstacles it
could even lock onto your face to shoot
selfie video for up to 15 minutes per
charge you want to know how much funding
this project got  2.3 million it was
the most funded Kickstarter project in
the history of Europe and unlike the air
umbrella which was a bunch of very
carefully curated faceless demos the
Zano drone campaign seemed to come with
loads of real evidence that it was being
worked on and real people staking their
reputation on it we'll get back to that
last bit well the first bit of worrying
news was that talking the Welsh company
behind the xano drones were actually
uncovered to have previously been
contracted to develop a military
surveillance quadcopter which they
failed to deliver on after 3 years of
funding because they couldn't figure out
the infrared obstacle avoidance Tech
which is the same Tech they promised to
deliver to the Zano so it still didn't
work when people received their xanos
they found out that while the obstacle
detection function was on all it would
do is just fly up in the air a few feet
and then land again over and over yeah
you know the sky was not the obstacle we
were trying to avoid and in the odd
times where it didn't just flop around
pathetically it would suddenly go out of
control flying off in random directions
until it was either out of range lost in
a tree or embedded in someone's face so
Zano didn't even manage to achieve the
base function of a drone and then
because the kickstarter was so
successful that they ended up with 20
times the number of orders they were
targeting to fulfill it also means the
company smashed all of their stretch
goals if you've ever used Kickstarter
you'll have seen that sometimes
companies will promise extra features if
they hit a certain number of orders so
yes they had to fulfill all of those too
which they were clearly not ready for
the company was so strained that they
ended up burning through their entire
pot of cash to the point where they
actually went bankrupt before they could
even attempt to integrate many the
features shown in the original trailer
like gesture control and the Drone being
able to land back in your hand wow that
actually worked it's like the least
awkward thing all video it's actually a
bit of a shame that they never got to
finish it cuz I would have loved to see
the end result of someone holding out
their hand and a clearly confused drone
accidentally landing on their head but
this project got just way out of hand
because in order to try and save
themselves from bankruptcy the company
then started selling the Drone to new
buyers before it had even shipped it to
the existing backers this project was so
poorly handled that it even had a
profound effect on Kickstarter
themselves with people dropping out left
right and center and losing faith in the
platform themselves it got to the point
where Kickstarter had to send a letter
to backers announcing that Zano's
creators were banned from creating any
further projects and they even went as
far as to commission the freelance
journalist Mark Harris to do a fullscale
investigation basically a postmortem to
make it clear to the public that the
reason Zano didn't work was because of
them and not Kickstarter although let's
be honest Kickstarter didn't have
nothing to do with it number two then
has got to be Fisker an American
Automotive Company who released a car
called the ocean and this one also
involves our buddy Marquez MKBHD so
Marquez initially asked Fisker to give
him that car so he could review it but
the company kept delaying so he just
borrowed it from a dealer when fisa
found out that Marquez had found a way
to get hold of the car they asked him to
wait to review it until a software
update came out he said no and reviewed
it anyway he his words were it's not
really in my policy to wait on promised
future software updates I'm going to
review the car that's out now that real
buyers are actually living with and I
think this is the important point if
this was a pre-released product and it
was running beta software then maybe
what the company was asking was fair but
no this car was on sale and in buyer
hands so no taky boxies so anyway
marquez's review was pretty resoundingly
negative the worst car I've ever
reviewed is actually the title talking
about a lot of weird choices including
unlabeled buttons and sunroof solar
panels you can't Monitor and software
glitches with the key fob the cameras
and more it does not look like a good
product I think that's pretty clear but
then fisa who's already in a bad spot
here made it a lot worse with their
response they basically called up the
dealer who lent the car to Marquez and
asked him for marquez's personal details
so they could get in touch directly with
him it was a clear sign of a company not
confident in their product but in fact
scrambling to hide a mess which is not
only morally wrong but I mean that would
be a crime in some countries Fisco was
already on the down before this whole
Fiasco but obviously it blowing up
across the Internet it's not going to
decelerate the process and it made it
very much an external embarrassment as
well as an internal one to the point
where in this moment fisa said that they
may not even have enough money to
survive the year and they've had to turn
to extreme markdowns to Stave off
bankruptcy they've basically been forced
to slash the price of the ocean their
only model by nearly 40% oh yeah and
they're also on track for being delisted
from the New York Stock Exchange for
failure to keep their share price above
$18 out of 10 fail but now it's getting
majorly majorly
awkward with Yahoo it sounds ridiculous
today but before Google became the
absolute Behemoth that it is now Yahoo
was the biggest search engine in the
world but here's what makes this so
cringeworthy Yahoo actually had the
chance to buy Google
twice the first time was in 1998 where
the two Google Founders Larry Page and
Sergey Brin they wanted to sell their
startup so that they could get back to
focusing on College which they priced at
$1 million and the tech that made them
confident enough to price it that high
was something called the page rank
system it's basically the function that
shows you the page that most closely
matches what you're looking for
essentially what became the core
function of Google search yah who
decided to not buy the company they said
it was
overpriced okay but then fast forward to
2002 where Google had already way
overtaken Yahoo to be the reigning
search engine for a couple of years it
was looking so bad for Yahoo that they
decided to cut their losses and just go
after Google again they swallowed their
pride and they offered them $3
billion Google said give us 5 billion
and Yahoo thought No 5 billion that's
absolutely crazy and they walked away
for the second time but oh my goodness
you know what Google is worth today 2.1
ion Yahoo could have made a 400 times
profit if they'd sealed the deal in 2002
and if they' done it in
1998 well 2 million times but as it
stands because they didn't they ended up
being crushed by Google with most of
their Core Business being acquired by
Verizon in 2017 for just a fraction of
what it used to be worth 9 out of 10